### Oscillators

To create an oscillator, instantiate an `OscillatorNode`.  Once assigned to a
variable, you may adjust its pitch with the `.frequency` and `.detune`
properties: `.frequency` is a number in Hz; `.detune` is a number in cents.  In
addition, you may change the shape of the waveform by assigning the `.type`
property:  The default value is `"sine"`, but you may change that to
`"square"`, `"sawtooth"`, or `"triangle"`.  Once you hook up the oscillator to
a `GainNode` and the dac, don't forget to call its `.start()` method, which is
what actually tells the oscillator to start producing sound.

The `.start()` method takes one optional argument: the time (in seconds) after
which the oscillator should begin playing.  If you omit this argument, the
method supplies a default value of `audioCtx.currentTime`, which is the
equivalent of saying, "start immediately".  In general, it is good practice to
declare time offsets in relation to `audioCtx.currentTime`, so instead of
writing `.start(2)`, you should write `.start(audioCtx.currentTime + 2)`.

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	
	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator.frequency.value = 220;
	oscillator.type = "sawtooth";
	oscillatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	oscillatorGain.gain.value = 0.1;
	oscillator.connect(oscillatorGain);
	oscillatorGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);
	
	oscillator.start();


### Vocabulary

- `.frequency` vs. `.detune`
- [`OscillatorNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/OscillatorNode)
- sawtooth, sine, square, and triangle waves


### Self-Study

1. Recall the formula for converting a MIDI number to a frequency.  Write a
   function that takes in a MIDI number and plays the corresponding frequency.
2. Familiarize yourself with the sounds of the four basic waveforms: sawtooth,
   sine, square, and triangle.  Try combining different oscillators that have
   different waveforms.  What combinations are effective?  What combinations
   are ineffective?  You may also find it interesting to play around with
   different osciallators at frequencies which correspond to the overtone
   series of some fundamental.


### Self-Quiz

1. I have an oscillator with frequency `350` and detune `1200`.  What is
   the oscillator's actual frequency?

ANSWER: 700 Hz

2. I have an oscillator with frequency `500` and detune `-2400`.  What is
   the oscillator's actual frequency?

ANSWER: 125 Hz
