### Vibrato

Let's create a vibrato effect, which is a periodic wobble in pitch.  To do so,
we need a secondary oscillator, called a "modulator", which changes a parameter
of the first oscillator.  Since this second oscillator tends to run at a low
frequency—usually below the threshhold of hearing at 20Hz or fewer—you'll
sometimes hear the modulator referred to as a "low frequency oscillator".

Since there are two ways adjust the pitch of an oscillator—frequency and
detune—there are therefore two the modulator can create vibrato: either by
hooking up the modulator to the `.frequency` property, or the `.detune`
property.

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();

	const oscillator1 = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator1.frequency = 220;
	oscillator1.detune = 50;
	oscillator1.type = "sawtooth";
	const modulator1 = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator1.connect(oscillator1.frequency);
	oscillator1.start();
	oscillator1.connect(audioCtx.destination);

	const oscillator2 = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator2.frequency = 220;
	oscillator2.detune = 50;
	oscillator2.type = "sawtooth";
	const modulator2 = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator2.connect(oscillator2.frequency);
	oscillator2.start();
	oscillator2.connect(audioCtx.destination);

You'll hear the "wobble" is different for each case.  The reason is that in the
first case, you are changing the frequency by 1Hz up and down, and in the
second case, you are changing the pitch by 1 cent up and down.

To make the vibrato more exaggerated, you should change the amplitude of the
modulator.  To do so, run the modulator through a gain node.

	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator.frequency = 220;
	oscillator.detune = 50;
	oscillator.type = "sawtooth";

	const modulator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator.frequency = 1;
	const modulatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	modulatorGain.gain = 20;
	modulator.connect(oscillator.detune);

	oscillator.start();
	oscillator.connect(audioCtx.destination);


### Tremolo

Another effect is "tremolo", which is a periodic wobble in volume.  This is the
same thing as changing the amplitude of the oscillator wave, which means we
need some way to adjust the oscillator's volume.  To do this, we hook up a
`GainNode` to the oscillator.

	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	const oscillatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();

	modulator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator.connect(oscillatorGain.gain);

	oscillator.start();
	oscillator.connect(audioCtx.destination);

You'll notice the sound ducking in and out once every second.  This should
actually raise a red flag, for a very subtle reason.  The modulator is running
at 1 Hz, meaning one sine wave per second.  This means that there actually
should be *two* ducks in volume for second, one for each 0-crossing of the
wave.  This is because the Web Audio API automatically scales the amplitude of
the modulator wave.  Since gain normally runs between 0. and 1.—not -1. and
1.—we are not experiencing an absense of volume at the 0-crossing, but rather
at the bottom crest of the wave.
