### Vibrato

Let's create a vibrato effect, which is a periodic wobble in pitch.  We start
with an oscillator that's producing a constant pitch.  To add vibrato, we need
a secondary oscillator, called a "modulator", which changes the pitch of the
first oscillator.  Since this second oscillator tends to run at a low
frequency—usually below the threshold of hearing at 20 Hz or fewer—you'll
sometimes hear the modulator referred to as a "low frequency oscillator".

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();

	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator.frequency.value = 220;
	oscillator.type = "sawtooth";
	const oscillatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	oscillatorGain.gain.value = 0.1;
	oscillator.connect(oscillatorGain);
	oscillatorGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

	const modulator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator.frequency.value = 1;
	const modulatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	modulatorGain.gain.value = 100;
	modulator.connect(modulatorGain);
	modulatorGain.connect(oscillator.frequency); // try switching to oscillator.detune

	oscillator.start();
	modulator.start();

Create a modulator just like you would any other oscillator.  The frequency
should be small enough that you can hear the vibrato effect; this example uses
a modulator frequency of just 1 Hz.  Then, you can hook up the modulator to a
`GainNode`.  The value of the `GainNode`'s `.gain` determines how wide the
wobble is; this example features a very exaggerated vibrato of 100 Hz.

Next, we connect the modulator node to its gain, then its gain node to the
oscillator's frequency.  Lastly, we start the modulator.  Let's hear what this
example sounds like!

Since there are two ways to adjust the pitch of an oscillator—frequency and
detune—there are therefore two ways the modulator can create vibrato: one by
hooking up the modulator to the `.frequency` property, and one by hooking up
the modulator the `.detune` property.  Let's see what happens if we hook up our
modulator to `.detune` instead of `frequency`.

You'll hear that the wobble is much smaller.  The reason is that while
`ferquency` is measured in Hz, `.detune` is measured in **cents**.  Since cents
are almost always smaller than Hz, the second wobble is therefore smaller than
the first.



### Tremolo

Another effect is "tremolo", which is a periodic wobble in volume.  To create a
tremolo, we need to have our modulator alter the amplitude of the oscillator.
We can access the amplitude of the oscillator via the oscillator `GainNode`'s
`.gain` property.  Make sure also to lower the modulator's gain to 1—otherwise
the volume will be incredibly loud!

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();

	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator.frequency.value = 220;
	oscillator.type = "sawtooth";
	const oscillatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	oscillatorGain.gain.value = 0.1;
	oscillator.connect(oscillatorGain);
	oscillatorGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

	const modulator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	modulator.frequency.value = 1;
	const modulatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	modulatorGain.gain.value = 1;
	modulator.connect(modulatorGain);
	modulatorGain.connect(oscillatorGain.gain);

	oscillator.start();
	modulator.start();

You'll notice the sound ducking in and out; however, it's doing so twice a
second, not once a second.  Why is that?  The reason is that the oscillator's
gain reaches maximum volume when the modulator wave is at either 1 *or* -1; the
oscillator is silent whenever the modulator wave is at 0.  Since there are two
0-crossings in one period of a sine wave, we are actually getting two amplitude
pulses per second, not one.


## Downloads

Download the files used in the above examples by right-clicking the links, and
then selecting "Save Link As...".

* [vibrato.html](vibrato.html)
* [vibrato.js](vibrato.js)
* [tremolo.html](tremolo.html)
* [tremolo.js](tremolo.js)


## Vocabulary

- LFO
- tremolo
- vibrato


## Self-Study

1. Try playing around with different waveforms for the modulator.  What happens
   if you change its `.type` property to `"square"` or `"sawtooth"`?
2. Use two LFOs with different parameters to create a complex vibrato or
   tremolo.  Hint: try using one LFO to change the frequency or gain of the
   second LFO.
3. In the above explanation, we only run vibrato and tremolo effects at low
   frequencies.  (Hence, "low frequency oscillator".)  What happens when you
   run these effects at higher, audio-rate frequencies?  Hint: look up "frequency
   modulation" and "amplitude modulation".
