# Filters

### Filters

To create a filter, instantiate an instance of `BiquadFilterNode`.  In the
signal chain, hook up an `OscillatorNode` to it's `GainNode`, it's `GainNode`
to the filter, then the filter to the dac.  It is important you pick a
frequency-rich waveform like `"sawtooth"` or `"square"`, because it will be
difficult or impossible to hear the filter's effects on a frequency-poor
waveform like `"triangle"` or `"sine"`.

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();

	const oscillator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	oscillator.frequency.value = 220;
	oscillator.type = "sawtooth";
	const oscillatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	oscillatorGain.gain.value = 0.1;

	const filter = audioCtx.createBiquadFilter();

	oscillator.connect(oscillatorGain);
	oscillatorGain.connect(filter);
	filter.connect(audioCtx.destination);

	oscillator.start();


Filters have a number of properties you may customize.  The `.type` property
may be set to basic filter types like `"lowpass"`, `"highpass"`, and
`"bandpass"`, as well as more advanced types like `"peaking"` and `"notch"`.
The `.frequency` and `.detune` properties may be used to set the cutoff
frequency.  In conjunction with the `.Q` property, you may fine-tune your
filter.

	filter.type = "lowpass";
	filter.frequency.value = 660;
	filter.Q.value = 20;

You may also hook up an LFO to the filter properties.  You may change all of
the properties that are `AudioParam`s: `.frequency`, `.detune`, and `.Q`.

	const modulator = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	const modulatorGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	// set modulator parameters
	modulator.connect(modulatorGain);
	modulatorGain.connect(filter.frequency);
	modulator.start();


## Downloads

Download the files used in the above examples by right-clicking the links, and
then selecting "Save Link As...".

* [filter.html](filter.html)
* [filter.js](filter.js)


## Vocabulary

- [`BiquadFilterNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BiquadFilterNode)
- cutoff frequency
- lowpass vs. highpass vs. bandpass filters
- Q


## Self-Study

1. In this item, you only applied a filter to a basic waveform.  Try applying
   different filters to:

	1. a sound created with FM synthesis (see the discussion of vibrato in [LFOs](2.lfos.html))
	2. a prerecorded soundfile (see [Loading and Playing Sound Files](../sample-playback-with-web-audio-api/1.loading-and-playing-sound-files.html))
	3. live microphone input (look ahead to [Microphone Input](TODO))

2. Create a button that performs a "filter sweep", i.e. a steady decrease of
   the filter cutoff frequency over time.  (This will sound great over a sound
   file of a drum break!)
