### Accessing Your Microphone

To access your computer's microphone with your browser, you need to call the
`navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia()` function.  This takes in one argument:
an object that describes what media to access.  This object can look something
like this:

    {
      "audio": true,
      "video": true,
    }

For our purposes, we want just the audio.  Our full code will be as follows:

    const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
    if (navigator.mediaDevices) {
      navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia({"audio": true}).then((stream) => {
        const microphone = audioCtx.createMediaStreamSource(stream);
        // microphone can now act like any other AudioNode
      }).catch((err) => {
        // browser unable to access microphone
        // (check to see if microphone is attached)
      });
    } else {
      // browser unable to access media devices
      // (update your browser)
    }

The initial `if (navigator.mediaDevices)` checks to see whether the browser you're using is able to access the microphone.  If this check fails, that probably means you need to upgrade your browser.

On the next line, the `.getUserMedia()` function returns a special data type called a "promise".  For now, all you need to know about promises is that they take care of asynchronous processing.  The anonymous callback function passed in as an argument to the `.then()` method will only run once the browser has safely accessed the computer's microphone.  Contrariwise, the `.catch()` method will only run if the browser has failed to access the microphone, which usually means your computer lacks an internal microphone, so you need to plug one in.

A word of warning: since the internal microphone on your laptop is so close to the speakers on your laptop, it is very difficult to test live audio processing algorithms without getting horrendous feedback.  A good solution is to test your code while wearing headphones.  Just be careful not to hurt your ears!

### Recording to a Buffer

Let's try making a very simple voice memo recorder.  
