# Building a Granulator

### Windowing and Granulation

Let's apply a window to a sound file.  To review, a window is an example of
function that tracks amplitude (aka volume) over time.  Typically, a window
will fade in from complete silence, reach a desired volume, and then fade out.
It's a bit easier to understand visually: here are some examples of common
windowing functions.

Since windowing is an amplitude-based operation, we should look at the
[`GainNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode) API.
`GainNode` has a `.gain` property which is implemented as an
[`AudioParam`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam),
meaning we can use `AudioParam` methods like
[`.setValueCurveAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setValueCurveAtTime).
This method takes an array of gain values, and spreads them out equally over a
period of time.  So, if the array is `[0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]`, the window will
look like this.  If the array is `[0, 1, 0.4, 0.4, 0.4, 0]`, the window will
look like this.  Any array that starts and ends with a `0` should work well
as a window.

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	const dac = audioCtx.destination;
	let buffer = null;
	
	const request = new XMLHttpRequest();
	request.open("GET", "freejazz.wav", true);
	request.responseType = "arraybuffer";
	request.onload = () => audioCtx.decodeAudioData(request.response, (data) => buffer = data);
	request.send();

Let's start with this code here.  As you can see, we have set up our
`AudioContext` and dac, and created a variable called `buffer` to hold our
sound file.  Then, we have loaded our sound file asynchronously using an
`XMLHttpRequest`.

Now, let's set up a buffer source node and a corresponding gain node, and then
connect them all together.  We use the term "grain" to refer to a very short,
windowed excerpt of a sound file.

	const grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	const grainGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	grain.connect(grainGain);
	grainGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

Let's also not forget to tell the buffer source what buffer to look at!

	const grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	grain.buffer = buffer;
	const grainGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	grain.connect(grainGain);
	grainGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

Now it's time to set up our window.  We start by initializing our gain to `0`.
Then, we build our audio curve.  For the `.setValueCurveAtTime()` API to work,
the curve needs to be in a special array type called
[`Float32Array`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float32Array).
Let's make this a relatively long grain, with a grain duration of
half-a-second.

	grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, audioCtx.currentTime);
	const curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, audioCtx.currentTime, 0.5);

Finally, let's play the grain.

	grain.start();

Now, let's wrap everything we did in a callback function, making it so that we
play our grain whenever the user clicks a button.  I've already set up an HTML
page with a button with the ID `play`.

	const playGrain = () => {
	  const grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	  grain.buffer = buffer;
	  const grainGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	  grain.connect(grainGain);
	  grainGain.connect(dac);
	
	  grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, audioCtx.currentTime);
	  const curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	  grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, audioCtx.currentTime, 0.5);
	
	  grain.start();
	};
	
	$("#play").on("click", playGrain);

### Extending the Granulator

Right now, our granulator is very limited.  Each of our grains starts right at
the beginning of the file, lasts exactly half a second, and triggers the moment
you click the "play" button.  Let's try to make the behavior of our granulator
more sophisticated.

First, let make the grain duration and start time user-assignable, by adding
them as arguments to `playGrain()`.  We have to change all instances of
`audioCtx.currentTime` to `startTime`, and our `0.5` to `grainDuration`.  We
should also add `startTime` as an argument to the `grain.start()` method.

	const playGrain = (startTime, grainDuration) => {
	  const grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	  grain.buffer = buffer;
	  let grainGain = audioCtx.createGain();
	  grain.connect(grainGain);
	  grainGain.connect(dac);
	
	  grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, startTime);
	  const curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	  grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, startTime, grainDuration);
	
	  grain.start(startTime);
	};

Now, let's have the granulator play a *random* grain.  The second argument of
`grain.start()` is the "offset", meaning how many seconds into the sound file
we should play.  We can calculate our offset using JavaScript's built-in
[`Math.random()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
function, which selects a random float between 0 and just a hair under 1.  If
we multiply this by the duration of our buffer, we will get a random timestamp
in the bounds we want.  However, since the grain has to play through in its
entirety, we should *subtract* the grain duration from the buffer duration, so
that `grain.start()` will not run out of file to play.

	const offset = Math.random() * (buffer.duration - grainDuration);

Now we can add that offset to `grain.start()`.  The third argument is how long
the file should play.  Even though it is not strictly necessary to add this
argument—since our window will effectively silence each grain after the end of
the amplitude curve—manually stopping the playback in this way will conserve a
bit of memory and CPU.

	grain.start(startTime, offset, grainDuration);

Finally, let's modify our playback so that it plays a bunch of random grains.
Let's launch a new grain every 10 milliseconds, and have our grains be 50
milliseconds long.  This means that at any one time, 5 grains will be
overlapping with one another.

	for (let i = 0; i < 1000; i += 1) {
	  playGrain(audioCtx.currentTime + i * 0.01, 0.05);
	}

You can download a slightly more enhanced version of the granulator on the page
below this video.


## Downloads

* [granulator.html](granulator.html)
* [granulator.js](granulator.js)
* [freejazz.wav](freejazz.wav)


## Vocabulary

- [`AudioParam.setValueAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setValueAtTime)
- [`AudioParam.setValueCurveAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setValueCurveAtTime)
- grain
- window


## Self-Study

1. Modify the granulator so that it responds to the parameter changes in
   realtime.
2. Write a different granulator that creates a smoother granulation by playing
   the same small grain over and over again to effectively prolong a sound.


## Additional Resources

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Window_function)
