# Microphone Input and Recording

### Accessing Your Microphone

To access your computer's microphone with your browser, you need to call the
[`navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia)
function.  This takes in one argument: an object that describes what media to
access.  This object can look something like this:

    {
      "audio": true,
      "video": true,
    }

For our purposes, we want just the audio.  Our full code will be as follows:

    const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
    if (navigator.mediaDevices) {
      navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia({"audio": true}).then((stream) => {
        const microphone = audioCtx.createMediaStreamSource(stream);
        // microphone can now act like any other AudioNode
      }).catch((err) => {
        // browser unable to access microphone
        // (check to see if microphone is attached)
      });
    } else {
      // browser unable to access media devices
      // (update your browser)
    }

The initial `if (navigator.mediaDevices)` checks to see whether the browser
you're using is able to access the microphone.  If this check fails, that
probably means you need to upgrade your browser.

On the next line, the `.getUserMedia()` function returns a special data type
called a "promise".  For now, all you need to know about promises is that they
take care of asynchronous processing.  The anonymous callback function passed
in as an argument to the `.then()` method will only run once the browser has
safely accessed the computer's microphone.  Contrariwise, the `.catch()` method
will only run if the browser has failed to access the microphone, which usually
means your computer lacks an internal microphone, so you need to plug one in.

A word of warning: since the internal microphone on your laptop is so close to
the speakers on your laptop, it is very difficult to test live audio processing
algorithms without getting horrendous feedback.  A good solution is to test
your code while wearing headphones.  Just be careful not to hurt your ears!

### Recording to a Buffer

Let's try making a very simple voice memo recorder.  For this, we will use the
`MediaStream` recording API.  Once we create a `stream` using the promise
structure above, we can pass it into a media recorder as follows:

    const mediaRecorder = new MediaRecorder(stream);
    let chunks = [];
    
    // `eve` is short for `event` (which is a reserved word in JavaScript)
    mediaRecorder.ondataavailable = (eve) => {
      chunks.push(eve.data);
    };

The
[`MediaRecorder`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/OscillatorNode)
does not save its incoming data automatically; rather, you need to explicitly
direct it to save its data into a buffer inside of its
[`ondataavailable`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaRecorder/ondataavailable)
event handler method.  Here, the buffer is an array called `chunks`, so named
since the `MediaRecorder` is not actually receiving the data one sample at a
time, but rather in chunks.

The `mediaRecorder` instance can be controlled with the `.start()` and `stop()`
methods.  If you want to do something with the recorded data, you can do so by
adding an
[`.onstop()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaRecorder/onstop)
event handler method to the `mediaRecorder` instance, like so:

    mediaRecorder.onstop = () => {
      // a "blob" combines all the audio chunks into a single entity
      const blob = new Blob(chunks, {"type": "audio/ogg; codecs=opus"});
      chunks = []; // clear buffer

      // one of many ways to use the blob
      const audio = new Audio();
      const audioURL = window.URL.createObjectURL(blob);
      audio.src = audioURL;
    }


### Vocabulary

- [`MediaRecorder`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/OscillatorNode)
- [`navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia)


## Additional Resources

- MDN has an excellent [tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStream_Recording_API/Using_the_MediaStream_Recording_API) and [demo](https://mdn.github.io/web-dictaphone/) on audio recording with the web.
