# Introduction to HTML and JavaScript

### Course Expectations and Prerequisites

Since this is *not* an intro programming course, we will assume that you are
already familiar with at least one other programming language—most likely,
something like Python, Java, C++, R, or MATLAB.  We also assume that you are
familiar with elementary programming concepts like variables, functions,
control flow statements (e.g. "if" statements, "for" loops, and "while" loops),
and data types (e.g. integers, floating point numbers, strings, and arrays).
If programming is new to you, the assignments in this course may be quite
difficult, and you should expect to put in quite a bit of extra work in these
next couple weeks to catch up with the rest of the class.


### Module Summary

The "Introduction to HTML and JavaScript" module consists of eight lessons.
The goal is to help you teach yourself HTML and JavaScript.  The first two
modules provide background and resources for learning HTML and JavaScript.  The
next module will show you how to set up the most basic HTML and JavaScript
application.  The next four modules will summarize the similarities and
differences JavaScript has with other languages; you should use these as a
*supplement* to your other research, not as a *replacement* for it.  The final
module will be a big self-test.  This will help you gauge how well you are
learning the language, and whether your are ready to move onto the next
modules.


### Lessons

1. [Background and Rationale](1.background-and-rationale.html)
2. [Resources and Links](2.resources-and-links.html)
3. [Setting Up a Development Environment](3.development-environment.html)
4. [JavaScript as a Second Language: A Primer](4.javascript-primer.html)
5. [Typing in JavaScript](5.typing-in-javascript.html)
6. [Functions in JavaScript](6.functions-in-javascript.html)
7. [Common Bugs in JavaScript](7.common-bugs-in-javascript.html)
8. [Self-Test](8.self-test.html)
