# Background and Rationale

### Why JavaScript?

Although it has been around since 1995, JavaScript has recently experienced a
resurgence of newfound interest and popularity.  JavaScript was originally
designed to be the scripting language for web browsers, and is still required
knowledge for anyone designing a web application today.  Nowadays, JavaScript
has far outgrown this initial purview, and exists in its own right as a
general-purpose scripting language thanks to the
[node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) development environment.  JavaScript may even
be used as a scripting language *inside Max*, allowing you to integrate Max and
JavaScript smoothly and seamlessly.

While JavaScript works just fine on its own, programmers usually supplement the
language with open-source libraries and/or frameworks that assist with the
tasks at hand.  For audio applications, there exists the [Web Audio
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API), which is
a specification that allows you to play sound from a web browser.  Whereas the
Web Audio API usually operates at lower level,
[tone.js](https://tonejs.github.io/) is a higher-level library that uses the
Web Audio API as a backbone to build more fleshed-out audio-related tools and
interfaces.


### A Brief History of JavaScript (Or, Why JavaScript Is Weird)

All told, JavaScript's success is somewhat amazing.  The language was designed
and implemented in ten days, by a Netscape Navigator employee named Brendan
Eich.  Eich had a number of forward-looking ideas, but was hamstrung by 1) this
unreasonable time limitation, and 2) his employer's insistence that the
language look superficially similar to other popular programming languages of
the day.  Eich originally wanted to name his language "Mocha"—this despite the
fact that Sun Microsystems had just come out with a hot new language called
"Java".  Since Netscape Navigator was actually *collaborating* with Sun
Microsystems at this time, Netscape was essentially able to piggyback off the
notoriety of Sun's more-popular language, so they changed Eich's name from
"Mocha" to "JavaScript".  Needless to say, the confusion—among both programmers
and laypeople—continues to this day.  A word of warning: if you are a Java
programmer, don't be fooled by the superficial similarity between Java and
JavaScript: they are very different languages, and require different ways of
thinking and structural organization.

For at least a decade after it was born, JavaScript was considered a "toy"
language, good for little more than making a button flash on a web page or a
link change color.  This perception began to change in the late 00s.  In 2008,
Douglas Crockford released a book called [JavaScript: The Good
Parts](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517748.do) that emphasized the
sophisticated and beautiful aspects of the language, and provided tools for
mitigating the bad and awful parts.  In 2009, Ryan Dahl released
[node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), which freed JavaScript from the web browser
and allowed it to be used in all sorts of other applications.  Nowadays, it is
one of the [most popular languages in the
world](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2017#technology-programming-languages).

Yet, underneath it all, JavaScript is still that idiosyncratic language
designed under immense pressure and with limited foresight, and as such, it
comes with more than its share of blemishes and warts.  For a time, programmers
attempted to sidestep JavaScript's issues by inventing "better" JavaScript
alternatives that would transpile to vanilla JavaScript, the most popular of
these being [CoffeeScript](https://coffeescript.org/),
[TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/), and
[Dart](https://www.dartlang.org/).  This transpilation-craze has partially
abated since 2015, when a new version of JavaScript—called ECMAScript 2015 (aka
ES2015 aka ES6)—incorporated and formalized many of the helpful features
introduced in those languages.  These new features are now supported by all
modern browsers, and are quickly becoming an established standard.
