# Introduction and Background

### Why JavaScript?

Although it has been around since 1995, JavaScript has recently experienced a
flood of newfound interest and popularity.  JavaScript was originally designed
to be the scripting language for web browsers, and is still required knowledge
for anyone designing a web application today.  Yet JavaScript has far outgrown
this initial purview, and now may be used as a general-purpose scripting
language thanks to the [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) development
environment.  JavaScript may even be used as a scripting language *inside Max*,
allowing you to integrate Max and JavaScript smoothly and seamlessly.

While JavaScript works just fine on its own, programmers usually supplement the
language with open-source libraries and/or frameworks that assist with the
tasks at hand.  For audio applications, there exists the [Web Audio
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API), which is
a specification that allows you to play sound from a web browser.  Whereas the
Web Audio API can be a bit low-level, [tone.js](https://tonejs.github.io/) is a
higher-level library that uses the Web Audio API as a backbone to build more
fleshed-out audio-related tools and interfaces.


### A Brief History of JavaScript (Or, Why JavaScript Is Weird)

All told, JavaScript's success is somewhat amazing.  The language was designed
and implemented in ten days, by a Netscape Navigator employee named Brendan
Eich.  Eich had a number of forward-looking ideas, but was hamstrung by 1) this
unreasonable time limitation, and 2) his employer's insistence that the
language look superficially similar to other popular programming languages of
the day.  Eich's original name for JavaScipt was "Mocha", even though Sun
Microsystems had just come out with a hot new language called "Java".  Since
Netscape Navigator was actually *collaborating* with Sun Microsystems at this
time, Netscape was able to essentially piggyback off the notoriety of Sun's
more-popular language, so they changed the language's name from "Mocha" to
"JavaScript".  Needless to say, the confusion—among both programmers and lay
people—continues to this day.  A word of warning: if you are a Java programmer,
don't be fooled by the superficial similarity between Java and JavaScript: they
are very different languages, and require different ways of thinking and
organization.

For at least a decade after it was born, JavaScript was considered a "toy"
language, good for little more than making a button flash on a web page or a
link change color.  This perception started to change in the late 00s.  In
2008, Douglas Crockford released a book called [JavaScript: The Good
Parts](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517748.do) that emphasized the
sophisticated and beautiful aspects of the language, and provided tools for
mitigating the bad and awful parts.  In 2009, Ryan Dahl released node.js, which
freed JavaScript from the web browser and allowed it to be used in all sorts of
other applications.  Nowadays, it is one of the [most popular languages in the
world](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2017#technology-programming-languages).

Yet, underneath it all, JavaScript is still that idiosyncratic language
designed under immense pressure, and as such, it comes with more than its share
of blemishes and warts.  For a time, programmers were inventing "better"
JavaScript alternatives that would transpile to vanilla JavaScript, the most
popular of these being [CoffeeScript](https://coffeescript.org/),
[TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/), and
[Dart](https://www.dartlang.org/).  This transpilation-craze has partially
abated since 2015, when a new version of JavaScript—called ECMAScript 2015 (aka
ES2015 aka ES6)—incorporated and formalized many of the great features
introduced in those languages.  These new features are now supported by all
modern browsers, and quickly becoming the new standard for the language.
