# JavaScript as a Second Language: A Primer

### JavaScript Uses C-Like Syntax

JavaScript uses C-like syntax, making it look superficially like languages such
as C, C++, C#, and Java.  Some qualities of C-like syntax are as follows:

1. Single-line comments use `//`, multi-line comments use `/* */`.

    // this is a single-line comment
    /*
       this
       is
       a
       multi-line
       comment
    */

2. Curly braces `{ }` denote blocks.

    // The following code is identical to what you might write in Java or C.
    while (condition1) {
      if (condition2) {
        // do a thing
      } else {
        // do a different thing
      }
    }

3. Statements are terminated by semicolons, and whitespace is irrelevant.

   // Although this is unnecessarily difficult to read, it is technically
   // correct, working code:
   if(i>1){arr.push(i);return false;}else{return true;}

   // A better, clearer way to write the same thing:
   if (i > 1) {
     arr.push(i);
     return false;
   } else {
     return true;
   }


### Declaring Functions and Variables

JavaScript has gone through a bit of a redesign recently, most starkly in the
update of the language known as ES2015.  ("ES" is short for "ECMAScript", which
you can think of as being just another name for JavaScript"; sometimes you'll
see ES2015 referred to as ES6.)  ES2015 introduced new ways of declaring
functions and variables, that rectify some bizarre behavior in the original
JavaScript specification.

1. Declaring Variables

    // New Way
    let myNumber = 42;        // use "let" the first time you declare a variable
    myNumber = myNumber + 32; // same as myNumber += 32; no need to reuse "let"

    // Old Way
    var myNumber = 42;        /*
                               * "var" has some bizarre edge-case scoping
                               * rules, so if using "var", declare all your
                               * variables at the top of each function, NOT
                               * when the variable is first used
                               */

    // Never-Ever Way
    myNumber = 42;            /*
                               * Technically, this will work, but it makes
                               * myNumber a global variable accessible by ALL
                               * other JavaScript files in the project.  Never,
                               * ever do this.
                               */

2. Declaring Functions

    // New Way
    let myFunction = (arg1, arg2) => {
      // body of function
      return result;
    };

    // Old Way
    // (The old way uses strange rules for the "this" keyword.)
    function myFunction(arg1, arg2) {
      // body of function
      return result;
    }

    // Another Old Way
    var myFunction = function(arg1, arg2) {
      // body of function
      return result;
    }


### Data Types

1. Numbers

    let myNumber = (100 + 5 * 4) / 3 - (-2); // JavaScript uses PEMDAS, so
                                             // this evaluates to 42.

    let impossible1 = 100 / 0;               // the special value "Infinity"

    let impossible2 = 0 / 0;                 // the special value "NaN"
                                             // (short for "Not a Number")

2. Strings

    // New Way
    let greeting = `Hello ${name}!`;         // ES2015 has string interpolation

    // Old Way
    let greeting = "Hello " + name + "!"     // Old JavaScript relies on + to concat

3. Booleans

    let condition = !((true && false) || (1 < 0)); // Evaluates to true

4. `null` and `undefined`

    // The difference between null and undefined is a bit wonky, and ultimately
    // not that consequential.  Both represent a value which is not there.

5. Arrays

    let myArray = [42, "", false]; // arrays don't have to have the same data type
    let element = myArray[0];      // use square brackets to index; this is 42
    myArray[4] = "test";           // myArray is now [42, "", false, undefined, "test"]

6. Objects

    /*
     * JavaScript objects are really key/value pairs, similar to what Perl and
     * Ruby call a "hash" or what Python calls a "dictionary".  The key must be a
     * string; the value can be ANYTHING, even a function!
     */
    let note = {
      "midiNumber": 60,
      "duration": "4n"
    };

    let midiNumber = note["midiNumber"]; // one way to access a value by key
    let duration = note.duration;        // another way to access a value by key

    /*
     * In this example, "transpose" is a function, but it might more aptly be
     * called a method.  If this example is starting to look like an
     * object-oriented programming paradigm, that's because it is!
     */
    let chord = {
      "notes": [note1, note2, note3],
      "transpose": (transposeValue) => {
        for (let i = 0; i < this.notes.length; i += 1) {
          note.midiNumber = note.midiNumber + transposeValue;
        }
      }
    };


### Control Flow

JavaScript supports many common control flow statements:

  - `if`/`else if`/`else`
  - `for`, `foreach`, and `while`/`do {} while` (with `continue` and `break`)
  - `switch/case/default`
  - `throw` and `try`/`catch`/`finally`

Many tasks you can do with one control flow statement (e.g. `foreach`) can also
be accomplished with another (e.g. `for`), so don't feel pressure to memorize
the syntax for all of this.  If you just know `if`/`else if`/`else`, `for`, and
`while`, you should be able to get by just fine.
