### Static vs. Dynamic Typing

JavaScript is a dynamically-typed language.  This means that you don't have to
specify a variable's data type when you declare it, for example with an "int",
"string", "array", etc.  Furthermore, you can even *change* a variable's data
type on-the-fly.  This behavior will be familiar to programmers who know other
dynamically-typed languages like Python or Ruby, but strange to those who only
know statically-typed languages like Java or C#.

There is a bit of a rivalry between advocates of statically-typed and
dynamically-typed languages.  Advocates of statically-typed languages argue
that declaring types beforehand helps to eliminate type-related bugs, and
ensures the final product is faster and more efficient.  Advocates of
dynamically-typed languages appreciate how much quicker it is to prototype and
rapidly-iterate their code, and they argue the risk of type-related bugs is
overstated.  My own view is that you should pick the right language for the
job, whether that be statically- or dynamically-typed.  Since JavaScript's Web
Audio API is excellent for dealing with audio, we use JavaScript, regardless of
the merits of its typing.


### Strong vs. Weak Typing

Even though Python and Ruby are dynamically-typed languages, they are also
strongly-typed languages.  This means that if a function or operator expects
one type, and receives data of a different type, the program will throw an
error.  JavaScript, on the other hand, is weakly-typed, which means that if a
function or operator expects one type, it will *forcefully* cast whatever it
receives to that type.  While at first this may seem like a welcome
convenience, in practice it introduces a cavalcade of unwanted and hard-to-spot
bugs.

Here's an example: the number 4 times the string "2" gives you the number 8.
However, the number 4 **plus** the string "2" gives you the **string** "42".
JavaScript gives you no warning these type conversion have taken place.  This
trap is particularly easy to fall into when you're asking a user to type in a
number in a form on a web page.  Since web forms provide strings by default,
you'll need to remember to specifically cast it to an integer before doing any
arithmetic on it.  For this, use the `Number()` function.


### == vs. ===

Another unfortunate aspect of JavaScript's weak typing system is the ==
operator.  *Double-equals will also cast its operands*.  This leads to some
truly bonkers equivalencies, from the more benign "2" == 2, to the crazier
false == "0" and " \r\n\t\t   " == 0.  Double-equals also lacks transitivity:
false == undefined is false, false == null is false, but null == undefined is
true.

Luckily, JavaScript provides an alternative to this madness, === and its
opposite, !==, which act just like == and != in every other language.  You
should exclusively use the triple-equals operators in your code.


### Additional Resources

- A fantastic (albeit biased) summary of programming language styles and
  philosophies:
  [https://plus.google.com/110981030061712822816/posts/KaSKeg4vQtz](https://plus.google.com/110981030061712822816/posts/KaSKeg4vQtz)
- A short talk about the idiocy of JavaScript's weak typing system, featuring
  memes that were cool circa 2012:
  [https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/talks/wat)
  (the JavaScript portion starts at 1:20)
