### First-Class Functions

JavaScript has what are called [first-class
functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/First-class_Function),
which means that a function can be *itself* an argument or return value in a
*different* function.  This allows you to utilize a programming style known as
"functional programming".

Here is an example.  Let's say I have an array of
note names, and I want to convert that to an array of MIDI numbers.  Assuming
we have a `noteNameToMIDINumber()` function, we can do something like this:

    let noteNames = ["C4", "C#4", "D4", "G3"];
	let midiNumbers = noteNames.map(noteNameToMIDINumber); // [60, 61, 62, 55]

The
[`map`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map)
method takes a *function* as an argument, without the open-and-close parens you
usually place after functions.  This means the function is not yet called.
Instead, `map` calls the function—in this case `noteNameToMIDINumber`—once for
each element in `noteNames`, building a new array with the result.

You can think of the above code is equivalent to the following:

    let noteNames = ["C4", "C#4", "D4", "G3"];
	let midiNumbers = [];
	for (let i = 0; i < noteNames.length; i += 1) {
	  let midiNumber = noteNameToMIDINumber(noteNames[i]);
	  midiNumbers.push(midiNumber);
	}

You can see how `map` greatly simplifies the logic and control flow.  You
should also look up other functional array methods, such as
[`filter`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter)
and
[`reduce`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce).


### Callback Functions

Another example of function-as-argument is a "callback function".  A callback
function is an "asynchronous" function, meaning that it does *not* execute at
the same time as the rest of the program.  Rather, asynchronous functions wait
for a certain event to occur before running the code.  This is incredibly
useful in musical applications, since we frequently find ourselves waiting for
a cue before beginning an action.

    $("#my-button").on("click", () => {
	  // do something
	});

Here is an example of an asynchronous callback function using jQuery.  Here, we
are waiting for the user to click on an HTML element with the ID "my-button"
before launching the code.  Also note that the function in this example *does
not have a name*.  This is an example of an "anonymous function", or what some
languages call a "lambda".  I know it may seem like a lot of
vocabulary—asynchronous callbacks with anonymous functions—but this programming
paradigm is actually quite common in JavaScript, and you should get comfortable
with the concepts and the terminology.
