### Global Variables

JavaScript's greatest design flaw is that if you forget to say `let` or `var`
before a variable, it becomes global by default.

    let a = 1; // local
	b = 2;     // global

Global, by the way, does not just mean global in your one script.  Global means
global for *every script on the webpage*.  In other words, if you do something
silly like this:

    for (i = 0; i < 10; i += 1) {
      // do something
    }

You have just made `i` a global variable for *every one of your scripts*.
Needless to say, this can lead to insanely hard-to-spot errors and bugs.

As a preventative measure, you should get in the habit of using the `"use
strict"` directive.  Just put the string `"use strict"` at the top of each of
your scripts, and your browser will yell at you if it thinks you've misplaced a
global variable.

    "use strict" // line 1

	// put rest of code here


### Numbers in JavaScript

JavaScript makes no distinction between integers and floating point numbers.
That means, `7` divided by `2` is actually `3.5`, not `3` like it would be in
many other languages.  This is a side effect of using the IEEE 754 number
standard.  Here is another side effect of the IEEE 754 standard:

    let result = 0.1 + 0.2;     // result is 0.30000000000000004

As always, try to do all your arithmatic with integers until you absolutely
have to switch to floats.


### Automatic Semicolon Insertion

JavaScript actually doesn't require you to write semicolons to terminate
statements.  It actually does a pretty good job guessing where your statements
end, except in a case like this:

    function makeNote(midiNumber, duration)
    {
      return
      {
        "midiNumber": midiNumber,
        "duration": duration
      }
    }

When you call `makeNote()`, you will get `undefined`, because JavaScript
secretly put a semicolon *after* the `return`.  This means that you should
always use [K&R-style
braces](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indentation_style#K&R):

    function makeNote(midiNumber, duration) {
      return {
        "midiNumber": midiNumber,
        "duration": duration
      }
    }
