1. Write an HTML table that copies the first five rows and two columns of [this
   table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_popular_websites), that
   is, the names of the five most popular websites (as links), and then their
   urls (not as links).

   Don't forget the header row!

ANSWER:

    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr><th>Site</th><th>Domain</th></tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr><td><a href="google.com">Google</a></td><td>google.com</td></tr>
        <tr><td><a href="youtube.com">YouTube</a></td><td>youtube.com</td></tr>
        <tr><td><a href="facebook.com">Facebook</a></td><td>facebook.com</td></tr>
        <tr><td><a href="baidu.com">Baidu</a></td><td>baidu.com</td></tr>
        <tr><td><a href="wikipedia.org">Wikipedia</a></td><td>wikipedia.org</td></tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>


2. Create a fully-specified HTML page (including `!doctype` and outer-level
   `html` tags) with title and main text "Hello world!"  Then, link to a
   JavaScript file called "hello.js" that also prints out "Hello world!" to the
   browser console.

ANSWER:

    <!doctype html>
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <title>Hello world!</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <h1>Hello world!</h1>
      </body>
      <script src="hello.js"></script>
    </html>

    console.log("Hello world!");


3. Write a function in JavaScript that takes in a number, and returns a boolean
   corresponding to whether that number is prime.

ANSWER:

    let isPrime = (n) => {
      for (let i = 2; i < n; i += 1) {
        if (n % i === 0) {
          return false;
        }
      }
      return true;
    };


4. Let's say you have an array of integers—say `[0, 43, -123, 4, -60, 32]`—and
   you want to find the sum of *only* the odd integers in the array.  Write two
   JavaScript programs to do so: one that *doesn't* use functional programming
   constructs (i.e. `map`, `filter`, and/or `reduce`), and one that does.

ANSWER:

    // Without functional programming
    let numbers = [0, 43, -123, 4, -60, 32];
    let result = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < numbers.length; i += 1) {
      if (numbers[i] % 2 === 1) {
        result += numbers[i];
      }
    }
    console.log(result);

    // With functional programming
    let numbers = [0, 43, -123, 4, -60, 32];
    let result = numbers.filter((n) => n % 2 === 1).reduce((a, b) => a + b);
    console.log(result);


5. The following is one way to represent a note:

        let myNote = {
          "midiNumber": 60,
          "duration": "4n",
          "velocity": 80
        };

  In this example, `"midiNumber"` is an integer between 21 and 108, `"duration"`
  is a duration value (to simplify: one of "1n", "2n", "4n", or "8n"), and
  "velocity" is an integer between 0 and 127.  (Computer musicians often use
  "velocity" as a synonym for "volume" or "loudness".)

  Create a function makeRandomNote() that returns a note with a random MIDI
  number, duration, and velocity within the bounds stated above.  You may find
  the following function helpful:

        /*
         * This function gets a random integer between min and max, inclusive.  I copied
         * it from StackOverflow: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4959975/
         */
        let getRandomInt = (min, max) => {
            return Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1)) + min;
        };

ANSWER:

    let makeRandomNote = () => {
      let possibleDurations = ["1n", "2n", "4n", "8n"];
      return {
        "midiNumber": getRandomInt(21, 108),
        "duration": possibleDurations[getRandomInt(0, possibleDurations.length - 1)],
        "velocity": getRandomInt(0, 127)
      };
    };

6. Using your new makeRandomNote() function, make five random notes, and store
   them in an array, *sorted by velocity*.  You may find [this array
   method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort)
   handy.  If you can, challenge yourself to use an anonymous function when
   sorting the array.

ANSWER:

    let randomNotes = [];
    for (let i = 0; i < 5; i += 1) {
      randomNotes.push(makeRandomNote());
    }
    randomNotes.sort((a, b) => {
      if (a.velocity > b.velocity) {
        return 1;
      } else if (a.velocity === b.velocity) {
        return 0;
      } else {
        return -1;
      }
    });

7. Write a function that takes in a note of the form above, and determines
   whether or not that note is in the G major scale.  (Hint: you may want to
   review the material on pitch classes and MIDI numbers.)

ANSWER:

    let isInGMajorScale = (note) => {
      let gMajorScale = [7, 9, 11, 0, 2, 4, 6];
      let pitchClass = note.midiNumber % 12;
      return gMajorScale.includes(pitchClass);
    };

8. Look at the following snippet from an HTML document.

        <button id="toggler">Show/Hide Text</button>
        <p id="text">I'm being toggled!</p>

  Make it so that when you click on the button, you toggle the text.  If you are
  using jQuery, look up `$().toggle()`; if you are not using jQuery, look up CSS
  "display".  (Also, if you want to cheat, look at the source code for this very
  page!)

ANSWER:

    // With jQuery
    $("#toggler").on("click", () => {
      $("#text").toggle();
    });

    // Without jQuery
    document.getElementById("toggler").onclick(() => {
      let text = document.getElementById("text");
      if (text.style.display === "none") {
        text.style.display = "block";
      } else {
        text.style.display = "none";
      }
    });
