# JavaScript and Max: An Introduction

Max includes a built-in JavaScript interpreter, accessible by creating a **js**
object.  This object should have one argument: the name of the JavaScript file
you'd like to create.

You'll find there are few important differences between the JavaScript you're
used to and JavaScript as implemented in Max.  First, Max uses a pre-ES2015
version of JavaScript, meaning that newer features like the `let` and `const`
keywords, arrow functions, and array destructuring will be interpreted as
syntax errors.  Another difference is that Max doesn't use the DOM API, meaning
that global variables like `document` and `window` no longer carry any special
meaning.  On the flip side, Max introduces its own brand-new API, loading
special meanings onto variable names like `inlets`, `bang`, `post`, and many
more.

Let's build a simple JavaScript program inside Max.  First, exit edit mode, and
then double-click on your newly-made **js** object to open up the code editor.
Then, open the Max console by typing ctrl- or cmd-M.  This step is important
because the Max console will tell you if your code has any syntax errors.

Next, use the code editor to declare how many inlets and outlets your **js**
object will have.  Do this with the global `inlets` and `outlets` variables.
When you save your code, you'll see that the number of inlets and outlets of
the **js** object will change accordingly.

The next thing we'll do is create a function called `bang()`.  `bang()` is a
special function that executes whenever the **js** object receives a bang in
its leftmost inlet.  Let's add the code, `post("hello world");`.  As you can
probably guess, the `post()` function is the Max equivalent of a
`console.log()`, printing a debug message to the Max console.

Let's test our code by creating a **button**, and then connecting it to our
**js** object.  You'll see that the `"hello world"` keeps repeating on the same
line; to change this behavior, we need to manually provide a `\n`.

In our next example, let's have our **js** object spit out a random number when
you send it a _bang_.  JavaScript has a built-in math library, including a
function called `Math.random()`.  Let's assign our random number to a local
variable called `random`.  Then, we need to send our random number to an
outlet.  To do so, use the built-in `outlet` function.  The first argument is
the index of the outlet to send the data to—and be careful, it starts at 0!—and
the second argument is the data to send.  

Before moving on, let's briefly talk about how to organize your ".js" files in
relation to your ".maxpat" files.  The simplest method is to throw everything
in the same folder, ".js" and ".maxpat" alike; crude as this is, it will ensure
that Max won't run into any file path issues when trying to find your
JavaScript code.  A fancier solution is to create something called a "Max
project", by going to File->New Project in Max.  A Max project automatically
organizes your Max patches in a "patches" subfolder, and your JavaScript code
in a "code" subfolder; it will also do the same for your externals and JSON
files.  As you begin to develop larger and larger projects, you'll probably
find that Max projects provide a cleaner and safer way to organize your code
than the one-folder way of doing things.


## Downloads

Download the files used in the above examples by right-clicking the links, and
then selecting "Save Link As...".

* [max-js-1.zip](max-js-1.zip)


## Self-Study

1. Code a **js** object such that, when it receives a *bang*, it randomly
   selects from a series of phrases to post to the console.  You may need to
   look at the
   [`Math.floor()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/floor)
   and/or
   [`Math.ceil()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/ceil)
   functions.
2. Take one of the preceding Max assignments from this course, and encapsulate
   it in a Max project.  Note how nicely the project window keeps track of
   abstractions!


## Additional Resources

* The JavaScript tutorials in Max cover much of the same ground as this
  introduction.  These tutorials may be found in the built-in reference guide
  in Max, or online on the Cycling 74 site 
  [here](https://docs.cycling74.com/max7/tutorials/javascriptchapter01),
  [here](https://docs.cycling74.com/max7/tutorials/javascriptchapter02), and
  [here](https://docs.cycling74.com/max7/tutorials/javascriptchapter02).
* For more on Max projects, see the built-in reference guide in Max, or the
  online version on the Cycling 74 site
  [here](https://docs.cycling74.com/max7/vignettes/projects_topic).
* For more information about file management in Max, Prof. Dobrian has written
  a
  [helpful guide](https://sites.uci.edu/camp2014/2014/04/09/basics-of-opening-a-file/).
