where the javascript file should go

autowatch

built-in functions

order of execution in threading


Max includes a built-in JavaScript interpreter, accessible by creating a *js*
object.  That object should have one argument: the name of the JavaScript file
you'd like to create.

You'll find there are few important differences between the JavaScript you're
used to and JavaScript as implemented in Max.  First, Max uses a pre-ES2015
version of JavaScript, meaning that newer features like the `let` and `const`
keywords, arrow functions, and array destructuring will be interpreted as
syntax errors.  Another difference is that Max doesn't use the DOM API, meaning
that global variables like `document` and `window` no longer carry any special
meaning.  On the flip side, Max introduces its own brand-new API, loading
special meanings onto variable names like `inlets`, `bang`, `post`, and many
more.

Let's build a simple JavaScript program inside Max.  First, exit edit mode, and
then click on your newly-made *js* object to open up the code editor.
Then, open the Max console by typing ctrl- or cmd-M.  This step is important
because the Max console will tell you if your code has any syntax errors.

The first thing to do inside the code editor is to declare the number of inlets
and outlets your *js* object will have.  Do this with the global `inlets` and
`outlets` variables.  When you save your code, you'll see that the number of
inlets and outlets of *js* object will change accordingly.

The next thing we'll do is create a function called `bang`.  `bang` is a
special function that executes whenever the *js* object receives a bang in its
leftmost inlet.  Let's add the code, `post("hello world");`.  As you can
probably guess, the `post` function is the Max equivalent of a `console.log`,
printing a debug message to the Max console.

Let's test our code by creating a *bang*, and then connecting it to our *js*
object.  You'll see that the `"hello world"` keeps repeating on the same line;
to change this behavior, we need to manually provide a `\n`.

In our next example, let's have our *js* object spit out a random number when
you send it a bang.  JavaScript has a built-in math library, including a
function called `Math.random()`.  Let's assign it to a local variable called
`random`.  Then, we need to send our random number to an outlet.  To do so, use the
built-in `outlet` function.  The first argument is the index of the outlet to
send the data to—and be careful, it starts at 0!—and the second argument is the
data to send.  

There's one other useful global variable you may want to know about at this point, and that is the variable `autowatch`.  If  variable 
