So far, our JavaScript code can only respond to a bang, since all we've written
is a `bang()` function in our JavaScript code.  If we add `msg_int()` and
`msg_float()` functions to our JavaScript code, we can have our *js* object
respond to integers and floats, respectively.  These functions take one
argument, which is the value of the integer or float that was sent to the
function.  As an example, let's have our *js* object add 5 to whatever
number—integer or float—comes in through its inlet.  Here's what that code
would look like.

	function msg_int(i) {
	  outlet(0, i + 5);
	}

	function msg_float(f) {
	  outlet(0, f + 5);
	}


It turns out that if you instead send the *js* object a _list_ of integers,
rather than just one integer, the `msg_int()` function will still trigger.
Furthermore, each extra argument you add to the `msg_int` function will
correspond to the next element of the list.  It also turns out that the extra
arguments need not themselves be integers—just the first one.

	outlets = 3;

	function msg_int(i, j, k) {
	   outlet(0, i);
	   outlet(1, j);
	   outlet(2, k);
	}

If you'd rather extract each element of the list one-by-one, you can get all of
the elements in the list at once by using the built-in `arguments` variable,
which is represented internally as an array.  Be careful though: if you try to
print the `arguments` array as is, you'll get a very unhelpful message that
says `jsobject` followed by some very large integer; this is because you're
printing the _pointer_ to the array, not the array itself.  To see each element
of the array, iterate through it with a `for` loop.

	function msg_int() {
	  post(arguments); // this is totally unhelpful
	  post("\n");
	  var s = ""
	  for (var i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
	    s += arguments[i] + " ";
	  }
	  post(s); // this is much better
	  post("\n");
	}

Finally, it turns out you can send the *js* object _any_ message, as long as
you have a corresponding outer-level function of the same name.  Here is yet
another dumb example.

