# JavaScript and Max: Functions and Arguments

So far, our *js* object can only respond to a bang, since the only thing in our
JavaScript code is a `bang()` function.  To have our *js* object respond to
integers and floats, we should add `msg_int()` and `msg_float()` functions to
our JavaScript code, respectively.  These functions take one argument, which
will give us the value of the integer or float that was sent to the function.
As an example, let's have our *js* object add 5 to whatever number—integer or
float—comes in through its inlet.  Here's what that code would look like.

	function msg_int(i) {
	  outlet(0, i + 5);
	}

	function msg_float(f) {
	  outlet(0, f + 5);
	}


It turns out that if you instead send the *js* object a _list_ of integers,
rather than just one integer, the `msg_int()` function will still trigger.
Furthermore, each extra argument you add to the `msg_int` function will
correspond to the next element of the list.  It also turns out that the extra
arguments need not themselves be integers—just the first one.

	outlets = 3;

	function msg_int(i, j, k) {
	   outlet(0, i);
	   outlet(1, j);
	   outlet(2, k);
	}

If you'd rather extract each element of the list one-by-one, you can get all of
the elements in the list at once by using the built-in `arguments` variable,
which is represented internally as an array.  Be careful though: if you try to
print the `arguments` array as is, you'll get a very unhelpful message that
says `jsobject` followed by some very large integer; this is because you're
printing the _pointer_ to the array, not the array itself.  To see each element
of the array, iterate through it with a `for` loop.

	function msg_int() {
	  post(arguments); // this is totally unhelpful
	  post("\n");
	  var s = ""
	  for (var i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
	    s += arguments[i] + " ";
	  }
	  post(s); // this is much better
	  post("\n");
	}

Finally, it turns out you can send the *js* object _any_ message, as long as
you have a corresponding outer-level function of the same name.  You can find
two examples in the accompanying Max patch: one that performs basic math
operations on lists of integers, and another that stores a value and keeps
track of math operations sent to it.

To summarize, you should begin planning out your JavaScript code by deciding
what Max messages you want to send to the *js* object.  Then, write a series of
outer-level functions in JavaScript with names that correspond to those Max
messages: the first element of each Max message will be the function name, and
the rest of the elements in each Max message will be the function arguments.
Finally, there are three exceptions to this general principle: the `msg_int()`,
`msg_float()`, and `bang()` functions.  `msg_int()` and `msg_float()` will
trigger whenever the first element of a Max message is an integer of float
respectively, and `bang()` will trigger whenever you send the *js* object a
bang.


## Downloads

Download the files used in the above examples by right-clicking the links, and
then selecting "Save Link As...".

* [max-js-2.zip](max-js-2.zip)


## Self-Study

1. Once you've downloaded max-js-2.zip, add a function `range()` to the
   integerOperations.js file that spits the lowest value out the left outlet
   and the highest value out the middle outlet.
2. Remove the *thresh* objects from the outputs of integerOperations.js.  What
   happens, and why?
3. Use the `jsarguments` global variable to add an argument to
   *js valueTracker.js* that determines the initial value.  For instance, if
   you create a *js valueTracker.js 3* object, an initial bang should send out
   a 3, not a 0.  Look at the
   [jsarguments](https://docs.cycling74.com/max7/maxobject/js) argument for
   more details.
