Notes on a Keyboard
===================

Notes on a Keyboard
-------------------

This is a piano keyboard.  It has 88 keys, some white, some black.  The black
keys are clustered together in alternating groups of two and three; pianists
use this repeating arrangement to orient themselves as they play.  As you move
from left to right on the piano, the notes get higher and higher in pitch; as
you move from right to left, the notes get lower and lower.

Let's zoom in.  Musicians use letters from the alphebet in order to identify
notes.  The white key directly below a cluster of two black keys is the note
"C".  (Even though "A" is the first letter of the alphabet, musicians
customarily start with the note "C".)  As you move up along the white keys, you
continue through the alphabet: this is D, E, F, and G, then we wrap back around
to A and B.  As for the black keys, each black key has two different
names: the "sharp" name, and the "flat" name.  To find the "sharp" name,
identify the white key directly to the left of the black key.  Since this is a
C, this is a C#.  Similarly, this is a D#, then F#, G#, and A#.  To find the
"flat" name, identify the white key directly to the right of the black key.
Since this is a D, this is Db.  Similarly this is an Eb, then Gb, Ab, and Bb.
It is important that you familiarize yourself with BOTH the sharp name and flat
name for every black key.

Octaves
-------

Zooming out again, we notice that there are multiples of each note on the
piano.  Different instances of each note are said to be in different "octaves".
These two Cs are one octave apart; these two Cs are two octaves apart; three
octaves apart, and so on.

We use numbers to denote what octave a note is in.  On a keyboard, the lowest C
is known as C1, the next highest is C2, then C3 and so on.  Of special note is
C4, which is usually given the name "middle C", since it is roughly—but not
exactly—in the middle of the keyboard.  The other notes also use numbers to
designate their octave.  Above C4 is C#/Db4, then D4, D#4/Eb4, and so on up to
B4, then C5.  Since musicians customarily start counting from C, the octave
number gets incremented between B and C, *not* between G and A as you might
expect if you're thinking alphabetically.

In order to familiarize yourself with the keyboard and the note names, you
should drill yourself regularly; links to online quizzes may be found in the
"additional resources" section on this page.


Vocabulary
==========

- flat
- middle C
- octave
- sharp


Self-Study
==========

- If you have access to a keyboard or a piano at home, try playing all of the
  Cs as fast as you can, starting from the lowest, then up to the highest, then
  back down to the lowest.  Do the same for the other eleven notes.
- Here is an online resource for practicing note identification:
  https://www.musictheory.net/exercises/keyboard


Self-Quiz
=========

1. What's the highest note on the piano?  What's the lowest note on the piano?
2. How many C's are there on a piano?  How many G's are the on a piano?  Why
   are these numbers different?
3. Sometimes, musicians will use the "sharp" and "flat" terminology to refer to
   *white* keys.  What do you think is another name for E#?  Cb?


Additional Resources
====================

- https://www.musictheory.net/exercises/keyboard
