Fundamentals of Rhythm
======================

Fundamentals of Rhythm
----------------------

The backbone of rhythm is a periodic pulse.  Usually, musicians count four
pulses at a time: one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four.  This is called
4/4 time, because we are dividing the music into four equal quarters.  As such,
each individual pulse is called a quarter note, and we call each instance of
four quarter notes "one measure".

As you might imagine, we can divide one measure into different subgroupings.
Here is the same measure divided into 8---these are called eighth notes.  Here
it is divided into 2---these are called half notes.  Here it is divided into
1---this is called a whole note.

Whole notes, half notes, quarter notes, and eighth notes are all powers of two.
We can continue this pattern as much as we'd like: into sixteenth notes,
thirty-second notes sixty-fourth notes, one-hundred-twenty-eigth notes, and so
on.  Practically speaking, thirty-second notes are the shortest duration you
will generally see, and even then only rarely.

Triplets
--------

Let's go back to our measure of 4/4.  We can also subdivide this measure into a
grouping of 6.  We call these "quarter note triplets", because now we're
playing three quarter notes in the span of two.  Similarly, here are eighth
note triplets, sixteenth note triplets, and half note triplets.  While triplets
are used sparingly in Western classical music, they are used much more
frequently in many popular styles of music, like jazz and hip-hop.

Dotted Notes
------------

Here is a different way of dividing a measure of 4/4.  As you can hear, the
lengths of the pulses are no longer equal.  The first pulse has the duration of
a quarter note and eighth note combined.  We call this a "dotted quarter note",
because in written musical notation, the quarter note is followed by a dot.
The second pulse is also a dotted quarter note, and the third pulse is a
regular quarter note.

Here is a way to visualize what is going on.  The top line shows our measure of
4/4; the bottom line shows the current rhythm.  Pay attention to the fact that
when our rhythm's second pulse does not align with any quarter note in the top
line.  Therefore, we say this rhythm is "syncopated".  The first and third
pulses are on-the-beat, while this second pulse is off-the-beat.

In addition to dotted quarter notes, we can also have dotted eighth notes,
dotted sixteenth notes, and so on.

Rests
-----

Another important element of rhythm is silence.  Here is a more complicated
rhythm.  It is two measures long.  The first measure consists of two dotted
quarter notes followed by a regular quarter note.  The second measure starts
with a quarter rest, then two quarter notes, and then another quarter rest.
Rests may have the same duration as notes, but instead of there being sound,
there is silence.

Time Signatures
---------------

So far, we've only looked at measures in 4/4, meaning each measure has four
quarter notes.  We can also have measures in 3/4, meaning each measure has
three quarter notes.  Each of these ratios is known as a "time signature", or
"meter".  It is possible to have any positive integer in the numerator of a
time signature: so 1/4, 2/4, 3/4, 4/4, 5/4, and so on, are all valid time
signatures.  However, in the denominator of a time signature, you may only have
a power of two: so 2/2, 5/8, and 17/16 are valid time signatures, but 4/3, 2/7,
and 8/5 are not.


Tempo
-----

One remaining aspect of rhythm is speed.  Sometimes your pulse is fast, other
times slow.  The speed of the pulse is known as "tempo".  Most musicians are
used to representing tempo as beats per minute, or BPM.  This means that if
your beat is a quarter note---as in 4/4 or 3/4---a tempo of 60 BPM means there
are 60 quarter notes per minute, or one quarter note every second.  If your
beat is an eighth note, as in 6/8 or 12/8, a tempo of 60 BPM means there are 60
*eighth* notes per minute, which means there are 30 quarter notes per minute,
or one quarter note every two seconds.  Musicians often omit the letters "BPM"
when discussing tempo, instead saying things like "quarter note equals 90" or
"eighth note equals one-hundred thirty-two".


Vocabulary
==========

- 4/4
- beats per minute (BPM)
- dotted note
- measure
- on-the-beat vs. off-the-beat
- rest
- syncopation
- tempo
- time signature (aka meter)
- triplet
- whole note, half note, quarter note, eighth note, etc.


Self-Quiz
=========

- How many quarter notes are in one measure of 5/4?
- How many eighth notes are in one measure of 3/4?
- How many quarter note triplets are in one measure of 4/2?
- How many dotted eighth notes are in **two** measures of 6/8?
- At quarter = 120, how many sixteenth notes are there per second?
- At half = 45, how many quarter notes are there per minute?
