# Representing Rhythm in the Computer

### Representing Rhythm in the Computer

Computers can represent rhythm in two ways: absolute time, and tempo-relative
time.  Tempo-relative time is what you're used to: a tempo is given in beats
per minute, and then the rhythm is given in a series of quarter notes, eighth
notes, dotted notes, triplets, and so on.  Many languages use a shorthand to
describe rhythmic values; this shorthand is given in the table below.

Another way computers represent rhythm is with absolute time.  Absolute time
measures the number of seconds—usually milliseconds—between note onsets.

Let's try to convert a rhythm from tempo-relative time to absolute time.  At
quarter = 60, each quarter note is exactly one second long—or 1000
milliseconds—because there are sixty seconds in one minute.  Therefore, each
eighth note is exactly half-a-second long, or 500 milliseconds, and each half
note is exactly two seconds long, or 2000 milliseconds.  A dotted quarter note
would be 1500 milliseconds, because a dotted quarter note is a quarter note
plus an eighth note, and a triplet quarter note would be 666.6 repeating
milliseconds long, because there are three triplet quarters for every two
regular quarters.

The formula from converting from tempo-relative time in BPM to absolute time in
milliseconds is 60,000 / BPM.  As we saw earlier, with quarter = 60, the
milliseconds in each quarter note is 60,000 / 60, or 1000.  If quarter = 100,
the milliseconds in each quarter note is 60,000 / 100, or 600 milliseconds.  If
eighth = 300, the milliseconds in each eighth note is 60,000 / 300, or 200
milliseconds.

To convert back from absolute time to BPM, you can use the inverse of the
formula: 60,000 / milliseconds.  Therefore, if a quarter note is 750
milliseconds long, the BPM is 60,000 / 750, or 80 beats per minute.


## Tables

- common rhythmic shorthand


## Vocabulary

- absolute time
- tempo-relative time


## Self-Study

- In your favorite programming language, write a script that takes in two
  inputs---a BPM (e.g. 60) and a duration value (e.g. 4n)---and spits out an
  absolute time in milliseconds (e.g. 1000).
- In your favorite programming language, write a script that takes in two
  inputs---a time in milliseconds (e.g. 500) and a duration value (e.g.
  8n)--and spits out how many of those duration values there are per minute
  (e.g. 120).


## Self-Quiz

- At quarter = 160, how many milliseconds are in an eighth note?
- At eighth = 200, how many milliseconds are in a triplet quarter note?
- If my eighth note is 400 milliseconds, how many quarter notes are in a minute?
- If my quarter note is 1200 milliseconds, how many triplet eighth notes are in a minute?
