### Max vs. Web Audio API

JavaScript's Web Audio API shares a number of characteristics with Max.  In
Max, we create and alter sounds using objects with tildes; in Web Audio API, we
create and alter sounds using
"[`AudioNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioNode)s".
In Max, we connect objects together using patch cords; with Web Audio API, we
connect `AudioNode`s together using the
[`.connect()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioNode/connect)
method.  Finally, whereas in Max, all objects live in a "patch", with Web Audio
API, all `AudioNode`s exist inside of an
[`AudioContext`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext).

This is the Max equivalent of a "hello world": playing a sine tone through a
**dac~**.  Here, the sine tone is 300 Hz, and it's being fed through a **\*~**
at half gain.  How would we build the equivalent program with Web Audio API?

The first thing we do is create an `AudioContext`, which is the equivalent of
starting a new patch.  Then we create our three `AudioNode`s: an oscillator, a
gain, and the dac.  Note that `AudioContext` has a built-in dac, which we can
access with `audioCtx.destination`.

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	const osc = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	const gain = audioCtx.createGain();
	const dac = audioCtx.destination;

Now, we can customize our `AudioNode`s.  To set an oscillator's frequency, we
set the `osc.frequency.value` property.  To set a gain's gain, we set the
`gain.gain.value` property.  Technically, `osc.frequency` and `gain.gain` are
implementations of the
[`AudioParam`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam)
interface.  This interface contains useful methods like
[`.linearRampToValueAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/linearRampToValueAtTime)
and
[`.setValueCurveAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setValueCurveAtTime)
that allow you to smoothly interpolate between a parameter's values.

	osc.frequency.value = 300;
	gain.gain.value = 0.5

Finally, we connect the `AudioNode`s together, just like we would connect
objects with patch cords.  The last line of code tells the oscillator to start
producing sound.

	osc.connect(gain);
	gain.connect(dac);
	osc.start();

One significant difference between Max and Web Audio API is that in Max,
objects are not at risk of deletion once you exit edit mode.  In Web Audio API,
on the other hand, once an `AudioNode` stops producing sound, it goes away
forever.  As a result, to create multiple simultaneous or successive sounds,
you may have to instantiate an `AudioNode` for each one.  Don't feel weird if
you're writing a program that creates hundreds or even thousands of
`AudioNode`s: as long as you remember to stop each one (which triggers the
garbage collector), your program will run just fine.

### Tables

| Max                                    | Web Audio API                          |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| objects with "~"                       | `AudioNode`                            |
| patch                                  | `AudioContext`                         |
| striped patch cord                     | `node.connect()`                       |
| **cycle~**/**tri~**/**saw~**/**rect~** | `audioCtx.createOscillator()`          |
| **gain~**/**\*~**                      | `audioCtx.createGain()`                |
| **dac~**/**ezdac~**                    | `audioCtx.destination`                 |
| **line**/**line~**                     | `node.param.linearRampToValueAtTime()` |


### Vocabulary

- [`AudioContext`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioContext)
- [`AudioNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioNode)
- [`AudioParam`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam)
- [`GainNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode)
- [`OscillatorNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/OscillatorNode)
- [`audioCtx.destination`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/BaseAudioContext/destination)


### Self-Study

1. Play an F major chord using the Web Audio API.  Hint: use either a note
   frequency table, or the note-name-to-MIDI-number code from the [Basics of
   Music Theory](TODO) module.
2. The `osc.start()` method takes in an argument: a start time in seconds.
   Rather than using just a number, it is good practice to specify a time via
   `audioCtx.currentTime + second`.  Using Web Audio API, play a C major scale,
   starting on middle C, one note per second.


### Self-Quiz

1. Why is there no sound playing?

	const audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	const osc = audioCtx.createOscillator();
	osc.start();

ANSWER: the oscillator is not connected to the dac!  Add the line
`osc.connect(audioCtx.destination);`.
