# Loading and Playing Sound Files

### Method 1: Raw HTML

The easiest way to load and play a sound file does not actually require any
JavaScript at all.  HTML includes the `<audio></audio>` tag, which has a `src`
attribute that you can set to load sound file you'd like.  (Note that certain
browsers can only play certain file types; you can find the compatibility table
[here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Supported_media_formats#Browser_compatibility).)
The `<audio></audio>` tag contains a number of other useful attributes, like
`controls`, `autoplay`, and `loop`.

	<audio src="freejazz.wav controls autoplay loop></audio>


### Method 2: JavaScript

You may also load a sound file with JavaScript, with `new Audio()`.

	let audio = new Audio("freejazz.wav");

You may then play back the sound with the `.play()` method.

	audio.play();

You may change the rate at which the sound file plays back with the
`.playbackRate` property.  A rate of `1` is normal speed; a rate of `2` is
double speed; a rate of `0.5` is half speed, and a rate of `-1` is backwards.

	audio.playbackRate = 2;
	audio.play();

You may also loop the audio with the `.loop` property.

	audio.loop = true;
	audio.play();


### Method 3: Web Audio API (synchronous)

While playing a sound file with Web Audio API is a bit more cumbersome to set
up, it ultimately gives you much more flexibility over the sound.  Start by
creating a context and an audio file.

	let audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	let audio = new Audio("freejazz.wav");

Then, attach the audio file to an `AudioNode`, and that `AudioNode` to the dac.

	let source = context.createMediaElementSource(audio);
	source.connect(audioCtx.destination);

Finally, play the sound.

	audio.play();

While in this example we're directly connecting the `MediaElementSourceNode` to
the dac, the advantage of this method is that we can place intermediate
`AudioNodes` in the middle of the signal chain.  This can allow us to control
volume, panning, reverb, delay, and so on.

### Method 4: Web Audio API (asynchronous)

The previous method loads your audio file at the moment you load the webpage.  While
this method will suffice when loading a handful of audio files, it will
significantly slow your computer if you want to load a whole bunch of audio
files.  So rather than load all of our audio files at once, we can instead load
each audio file *asynchronously*, meaning that we will only grab it from the server
when we explicitly ask for it.

In JavaScript, you can make asynchronous requests to the server with
`XMLHttpRequest`.  Often you'll hear this functionality described as AJAX,
which is an abbreviation for "asynchronous JavaScript and XML".  We want to
construct a `"GET"` request, which simply copies data from the server.

Let's start by setting up our `AudioContext`, as well as a top-level variable
to hold the data in the audio file.

	let audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	let buffer = null;

Now, let's make the `"GET"` request.  The `responseType` tells the program that
we're loading a sound file.  The `onload` function is a callback function that
runs once the file has been grabbed from the server.  Here, we are simply
taking the raw audio file, and storing it in our `AudioNode`.

	let request = new XMLHttpRequest();
	request.open("GET", "freejazz.wav");
	request.responseType = "arraybuffer";
	request.onload = function() {
	  let undecodedAudio = request.response;
	  audioCtx.decodeAudioData(undecodedAudio, (data) => buffer = data);
	};
	request.send();

Now, we can play the sound file by creating an `AudioNode`, attaching our
buffer to it, connecting it to the dac, and playing it.

	let source = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	source.buffer = buffer;
	source.counnect(audioCtx.destination);
	source.start();

