### Windowing and Granulation

Let's apply a window to a sound file.  Since windowing is an amplitude-based
operation, we should look at the
[`GainNode`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/GainNode) API.
`GainNode` has a `.gain` property which is implemented as an
[`AudioParam`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam),
meaning we can use `AudioParam` methods like
[`.setValueCurveAtTime()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/AudioParam/setValueCurveAtTime).
This method takes an array of gain values, and spreads them out equally over a
period of time.  So, if the array is `[0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]`, my envelope will
look like this.  If the array is `[0, 1, 0.4, 0.4, 0.4, 0]`, my envelope will
look like this.  Both of these envelopes will work as windows, as will any
other array that starts and ends with `0`.

	let audioCtx = new AudioContext();
	let dac = audioCtx.destination;
	let buffer = null;
	
	let request = new XMLHttpRequest();
	request.open("GET", "freejazz.wav", true);
	request.responseType = "arraybuffer";
	request.onload = () => audioCtx.decodeAudioData(request.response, (data) => buffer = data);
	request.send();

Let's start with this code here.  As you can see, we have set up our
`AudioContext` and dac, and set asside the variable `buffer` to hold our sound
file.  Then, we have loaded our soundfile asynchronously using an
`XMLHttpRequest`.

Now, let's set up a buffer source node and a corresponding gain node, and then
connect them all together.

	let grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	let grainGain = audioCtx.createGain()
	grain.connect(grainGain);
	grainGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

Let's not forget to tell the buffer source what buffer to look at!

	let grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	grain.buffer = buffer;
	let grainGain = audioCtx.createGain()
	grain.connect(grainGain);
	grainGain.connect(audioCtx.destination);

Now it's time to set up our window.  We start by initializing our gain to 0.
Then, we build our audio curve.  For the `.setValueCurveAtTime()` API to work,
the curve needs to be in a special array type called
[`Float32Array`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float32Array).
Let's make this a relatively long grain, with a grain duration of
half-a-second.

	grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, audioCtx.currentTime);
	let curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, audioCtx.currentTime, 0.5);

Finally, let's play the grain.

	grain.start();

Now, let's wrap everything we did in a callback function, making it so that we
play our grain whenever the user clicks a button.  I've already set up an HTML
page with a button with the ID `play`.

	let playGrain = () => {
	  let grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	  grain.buffer = buffer;
	  let grainGain = audioCtx.createGain()
	  grain.connect(grainGain);
	  grainGain.connect(dac);
	
	  grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, audioCtx.currentTime);
	  let curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	  grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, audioCtx.currentTime, 0.5);
	
	  grain.start();
	};
	
	$("#play").on("click", playGrain);


### Adding randomness

Right now, our granulator is very limited.  Each of our grains starts right at
the beginning of the file, lasts exactly half a second, and triggers the moment
you click the "play" button.  Let's try to make the behavior of our granulator
more sophisticated.

First, let make the grain duration and start time user-assignable, by adding
them as arguments to `playGrain()`.  We have to change all instances of
`audioCtx.currentTime` to `startTime`, and our `0.5` to `grainDuration`.  We
should also add `startTime` as an argument to the `grain.start()` method.

	let playGrain = (startTime, grainDuration) => {
	  let grain = audioCtx.createBufferSource();
	  grain.buffer = buffer;
	  let grainGain = audioCtx.createGain()
	  grain.connect(grainGain);
	  grainGain.connect(dac);
	
	  grainGain.gain.setValueAtTime(0, startTime);
	  let curve = new Float32Array([0, 0.3, 1, 0.3, 0]);
	  grainGain.gain.setValueCurveAtTime(curve, startTime, grainDuration);
	
	  grain.start(startTime);
	};

Now, let's have the granulator play a *random* grain.  The second argument of
`grain.start()` is the offset, meaning how many seconds into the sound file we
should play.  We can calculate our offset using JavaScript's built-in
[`Math.random()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
function, which selects a random float between 0 and just a hair under 1.  If
we multiply this by the duration of our buffer, we will get a random timestamp
in the bounds we want.  However, since the grain has to play through in its
entirety, we should *subtract* the grain duration from the buffer duration, so
that `grain.start()` will not run out of file to play.

	let offset = Math.random() * (buffer.duration - grainDuration)

Now we can add that offset to `grain.start()`.  The third argument is how long
the file should play.  Even though it is not strictly necessary to add
this—since our window will effectively silence grain after the grain duration
elapses—manually stopping the playback in this way will conserve a bit of
memory and CPU.

	grain.start(startTime, offset, grainDuration);

Finally, let's modify our playback so that it plays a bunch of random grains.
Let's launch a new grain every 10 milliseconds, and have our grains be 50
milliseconds long.  This means that at any one time, 5 grains will be
overlapping with one another.

	for (let i = 0; i < 1000; i += 1) {
	  playGrain(i * 0.01, 0.05);
	}

You can download the finished product, as well as a slightly more developed
HTML page, on the page below this video.
