### Module Expectations and Prerequisites

In this class, you will complete different assignments using different
programming languages.  The two primary languages you will use are Max and
JavaScript.  Max is a graphical programming language specifically designed for
music and audio applications; as such, it is probably quite unlike any language
you have used before.  (See the [Max Module](todo) for an introduction to Max.)
JavaScript, on the other hand, is a general-purpose, text-based language with a
diverse array of applications.  Chances are, JavaScript will seem much less
foreign to you than Max will, since it resembles many other languages in common
usage today.

Since this is *not* an intro programming course, we will assume that you are
already familiar with at least one other programming language—most likely,
something like Python, Java, C++, R, or MATLAB.  We also assume that you are
familiar with elementary programming concepts like variables, functions,
control flow (e.g. "if" statements, "for" loops, and "while" loops), and data
types (e.g. integers, floating point numbers, strings, and arrays).  If
programming is new to you, the assignments in this course may be quite
difficult, and you should expect to put in quite a bit of extra work in these
next couple weeks to catch up with the rest of the class.


### Why JavaScript?

Although it has been around since 1995, JavaScript has recently experienced a
flood of newfound interest and popularity.  JavaScript was originally designed
to be the scripting language for web browsers, and is still required knowledge
for anyone designing a web application today.  Yet JavaScript has far outgrown
this initial purview, and now may be used as a general-purpose scripting
language thanks to the [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) development
environment.  JavaScript may even be used as a scripting language *inside Max*,
allowing you to integrate Max and JavaScript smoothly and seamlessly.

While JavaScript works just fine on its own, programmers usually supplement the
language with open-source libraries and/or frameworks that assist with the
tasks at hand.  This course will teach you all about the [Web Audio
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API), which is
a specification that allows you to play sound from a web browser.  Later on in
the course, we will cover [tone.js](https://tonejs.github.io/), which is a
library that uses the Web Audio API as a backbone to build useful, higher-level
audio abstractions.


### A Brief History of JavaScript (Or, Why JavaScript Is Kinda Weird)

All told, JavaScript's success is somewhat amazing.  The language was designed
and implemented in ten days, by a Netscape Navigator employee named Brendan
Eich.  Eich had a number of forward-looking ideas, but was hamstrung by 1) this
unreasonable time limitation, and 2) his employer's insistence that the
language look superficially similar to other popular programming languages of
the day.  Eich's original name for JavaScipt was "Mocha"; however, at the time,
Netscape Navigator was collaborating Sun Microsystems, which had just come out
with a hot new language called "Java".  Because of this partnership, Netscape
was able to essentially piggyback off the notoriety of Sun's more-popular
language, so they changed the name from "Mocha" to "JavaScript".  Needless to
say, the confusion—among both programmers and lay people—continues to this day.
A word of warning: if you are a Java programmer, don't be fooled by the
superficial similarity between Java and JavaScript: they are very different
languages, and require different ways of thinking and organization.

For at least a decade after it was born, JavaScript was considered a "toy"
language, good for little more than making a button flash on a web page or a
link change color.  This perception started to change in the late 00s.  In
2008, Douglas Crockford released a book called [JavaScript: The Good
Parts](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517748.do) that emphasized the
sophisticated and beautiful aspects of the language, and provided tools for
mitigating the annoying, bad, and awful parts.  In 2009, Ryan Dahl released
node.js, which freed JavaScript from the web browser and allowed it to be used
in all sorts of other applications.  Nowadays, it is undoubtedly one of the
[most popular languages in the
world](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2017#technology-programming-languages).

Yet, underneath it all, JavaScript is still that idiosyncratic language
designed under immense pressure, and as such, it comes with more than its share
of blemishes and warts.  For a time, programmers were inventing "better"
JavaScript alternatives that would transpile to JavaScript, the most popular of
these being [CoffeeScript](https://coffeescript.org/),
[TypeScript](http://www.typescriptlang.org/), and
[Dart](https://www.dartlang.org/).  This transpilation-craze has partially
abated since 2015, when the newest version of JavaScript—called ECMAScript
2015—incorporated and formalized many of the great features introduced in those
languages.  These new features are now supported by all modern browsers, and
you are encouraged to take advantage of them in this course.
