### Static vs. Dynamic Typing

JavaScript is a dynamically-typed language.  This means that you don't have to
specify a variable's data type when you declare it, like with an "int",
"string", "array", etc.  Furthermore, you can even *change* a variable's data
type on-the-fly.  This behavior will be familiar to programmers who know other
dynamically-typed languages like Python or Ruby, but strange to those who only
know statically-typed languages like Java or C#.

There is a bit of a rivalry between advocates of statically-typed and
dynamically-typed languages.  Advocates of statically-typed languages argue
that declaring types beforehand helps to eliminate type-related bugs, and
ensures the final product is faster and more efficient.  Advocates of
dynamically-typed languages appreciate how much quicker it is to prototype and
rapidly-iterate their code, and they argue the risk of type-related bugs is
overstated.  My own view is that you should pick the right language for the
job, whether that be statically- or dynamically-typed.  Since JavaScript's Web
Audio API is excellent for dealing with audio, we use JavaScript, regardless of
the merits of its typing.


### Strong vs. Weak Typing

Even though Python and Ruby are dynamically-typed languages, they are also
strongly-typed languages, meaning if a function or operator expects one type,
and receives something of a different type, the program will throw an error.
JavaScript, on the other hand, is weakly-typed, meaning if a function or
operator expects one type, it will *forcefully* cast whatever it receives to
that type.  While at first this may seem like 

Additional Resources

- A fantastic (albeit biased) summary of programming language styles and philosophies:
  [https://plus.google.com/110981030061712822816/posts/KaSKeg4vQtz](https://plus.google.com/110981030061712822816/posts/KaSKeg4vQtz)

